What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange"- string

42- integers

09/02/1945-dates

98.7- float

$15.99-decimal

Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
-When we need to store data that makes it easy to search for specific data, that can handle multiple applications accessing the data, and persists beyond the end of a particular application process. A text file would be used when the file has only text and is void of images and other non-text characters. Text files are the basis for more advanced file formats. HTML, XML, CSV and many other formats are text files with additional formatting added.

Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
-SQL is a declarative rather than a procedural language. We tell the database what we are looking for and the database engine determines the most efficient way to return that data.

In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
-Databases display data using a table structure with columns that define what the data represents and rows that make up a complete conceptual unit. The power of the database lies in the ability to query and manipulate the data.

Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
-table:where records/data are laid out in
-row:individual parts of the data
-column:labeled according to what is stored there
-value: some piece of information that the column name describes.

List three data types that can be used in a table.
-dates, numeric values, objects

Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:
-I am looking for the date and amount of the payments
-I am looking for the amount of the payments that were greater than $500
-I am looking for all the info on the table related to the payments made by the payee Mega Foods.

Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:
The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
  -  SELECT email, sign-up
     FROM user;
     WHERE name = 'DeAndrew Data';

     output:name	signup
     DeAndre Data	2008-01-20T00:00:00.000Z

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
  -  SELECT userID
     FROM user;
     WHERE email: 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

     output:userid
            1

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
   -SELECT *
    FROM users;
    WHERE userId = 4;

    output: userid	name	email	signup
           4	Brandy Boolean	bboolean@nasa.gov	1999-10-15T00:00:00.000Z
